Welcome to the eLearning session
Getting Started with Ensemble:
Technology Adapters.
Business Services and
Business Operations
provide the inbound and
outbound connection points
for Ensemble Production.
While not always required, both
Business Services and Business
Operations use adapters to
achieve this connection.
Business Services
use Inbound Adapters.
And Business Operations
use Outbound Adaptors.
An adapter is a class
that will handle
the details of the
technology being
used for the connection, such
as the wire protocol or file
format, together with
retries and error handling.
The Business
Operations and Services
handle the content
at a higher level.
For a Business Service,
the Inbound Adapter
is constantly looking
for work, for example,
by listening on a
TCP/IP connection port
or monitoring a
directory of files.
When it finds work to do, it
calls the method ProcessInput
of the Business Service, passing
the input as a first parameter.
And the Business Service
will pass back any response
by reference in the
second parameter.
Let's take a look in
Studio at an adapter class.
As you can see, there
are adapters to handle
a wide range of technologies--
EDI, HL7, HTTP, SOAP SQL,
and so forth.
As an example, let's look
at the File InboundAdapter
that is used for picking
up operating system files
and processing them.
Just like the Business
Service or Operation,
an adapter class has settings.
In the case of the
File InboundAdapter,
these include the File
Path, Working Directory,
and Archive Directory.
These are properties
of the adapter class.
Other adapters have settings
appropriate to the technology
they handle.
When you configure a Business
Service in a Production,
the adapter settings
will appear along
with the other settings
of the Business Service.
If the Business Service
uses an adapter,
one or more jobs will be started
when the Production is started
to run the Business Service.
The number of jobs is controlled
by the Pool Size setting
for the Business Service.
When the file adapter is
running in a Business Service,
it will check the FilePath for
files that match the FileSpec.
If there are any, it will
process them one by one.
It moves a file to
the work directory,
if that has been specified,
reads the file into a stream,
and passes the stream
to the ProcessInput
method of the Business Service.
Upon successful completion
of the Business Service,
the file is moved to
the ArchiveDirectory,
if that has been specified.
If there are no
files to process,
the adapter will go to
sleep and check again
after the number of seconds
specified in the Call Interval
setting.
To include this adapter
in a Business Service,
I can use the New
Business Service Wizard
in Studio, which will
create a class like this.
By clicking on New and
selecting Business Service
in my Production tab, I
can specify the Package,
the Business Service.
When I click Next, I
have the opportunity
to select the
appropriate adapter.
When I click Finish,
you can see that I
have the basis of a new
Business Service class.
The adapter parameter
has been specified
as the file inbound adapter
that I've just selected.
Now, I need to implement the
OnProcessInput method in order
to process, line by line,
the information that
was read into the input stream.
Other Inbound Adapters, such as
the FTP adapter, email adapter,
or SQL adapter behave
in much the same way,
although the settings
available are different.
The TCP and HTTP adapters
are slightly different
and open a socket and listen for
input continually, rather than
polling at intervals.
But the essential
use is the same.
Now we will look at
Outbound Adapters, which are
called by Business Operations.
In a Business Operation,
the property ADAPTER
holds an object reference
to the adapter object
so you can call methods or
set properties of the adapter.
Normally, the Outbound Adapter
exposes a few simple methods
to make it easy to
call the adapter.
Let's look at an example
of a Business Operation
using the SQL Outbound Adapter.
So we will open
Business Operations,
eLearning, SQLOperation.
When using the Business
Operation Wizard,
you define the adapter to
be used for this Business
Operation, and that value
becomes the ADAPTER property.
That makes coding the
Business Operation much easier
since the adapter methods and
properties are now exposed
to the Business Operation.
I can set properties
of the adapter.
For example, in
my OnInit method,
I have set the timeout in
the Statement,Attrs property.
The main properties
of each adapter
are exposed through
the configuration
page of the Production.
So the values can be set either
in the configuration item,
or they can be set in the
Business Operation code.
The MessageMap defines
the post-message method
for StringRequest messages
that are sent to this Business
Operation.
In this case, SQL
inserts the text content
of my StringRequest message
into one column and the time
and date into another column.
The SQL Outbound
Adapter also has methods
to execute queries and updates.
When working with
any adapter, you
will find the online class
reference in our documentation
to be very useful for seeing
what methods and properties are
available.
If we take a look
at the configuration
page of a Production, we can
add the SQL Business Operation
to the Production, simply
selecting it from the list,
giving it a name, making
sure it's enabled so that it
can be used, and clicking OK.
If we take a look
at this operation,
you can see in the
Settings the adapter class
that's being utilized, the class
for the Business Operation,
as well as information that
would be required for a SQL
connection, for example, the DSN
credentials, potentially JDBC
driver information, as well.
Thank you for listening
to this session Getting
Started with Ensemble:
Technology Adapters.